[DOCS-1540] Initial docs for LLM Evaluation Jobs (#1910)
wandb/docs: models/launch/evaluate-model-checkpoint.mdx

1. A team admin must add an OpenAI API key as a [team-scoped secret](/platform/secrets#add-a-secret). This is required by many benchmarks for scoring. Any team member can specify the secret when configuring an evaluation job.
1. Review the documentation for a given benchmark to understand how it works and learn about specific requirements. For convenience, the [Available evaluation benchmarks](/models/launch/evaluations) reference includes relevant links.
1. Package the model in VLLM-compatible format and save it as an artifact in W&B. An attempt to benchmark any other type of artifact will fail. See [Example: Prepare a model](#example-prepare-your-model) for one approach.

## Evaluate your model
Follow these steps to set up and launch an evaluation:

1. Log in to W&B, then click **Launch** in the left navigation. The **LLM Evaluation Jobs** page displays.
1. Click **Evaluate model checkpoint** to set up the evaluation.
1. Select a destination project where the evaluation run and results will be saved.
1. In the **Model artifact** section, specify the project, artifact, and version of the prepared model to evaluate.

> 1. Click **Evaluations**, then select up to six benchmarks to run.

Reviewer: The maximum is 4 benchmarks

> 1. If you select one or more benchmarks that require an OpenAI API key, the **Scorer API key** field displays. Click it, then select the OpenAI API key's secret by name. For convenience, a team admin can create a secret from this drawer by clicking **Create secret**.

Reviewer: Some benchmarks will also require a HuggingFace token, in which case a `Hugging Face token` field will be displayed.

<img width="434" height="709" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb8cbbdb-0a74-418b-b416-15cdf838eb2d" />

These datasets are typically gated and will require them to navigate to it on Hugging Face and request access (https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/datasets-gated#access-gated-datasets-as-a-user)

---
description: "Evaluate a VLLM-compatible model checkpoint using infrastructure managed by CoreWeave"
title: "Evaluate a model checkpoint"
---
import ReviewEvaluationResults from "/snippets/en/_includes/llm-eval-jobs/review-evaluation-results.mdx";
import RerunEvaluation from "/snippets/en/_includes/llm-eval-jobs/rerun-evaluation.mdx";
import ExportEvaluation from "/snippets/en/_includes/llm-eval-jobs/export-evaluation.mdx";
import PreviewLink from '/snippets/en/_includes/llm-eval-jobs/preview.mdx';

> <PreviewLink />

Author: ```suggestion
<Note><PreviewLink /></Note>
```

> This page shows how to use [W&B LLM Evaluation Jobs](/models/launch) to run a series of evaluation benchmarks on a model checkpoint using infrastructure managed by CoreWeave. To evaluate a hosted API model instead, see [Evaluate an API-hosted model](/models/launch/evaluate-hosted-model) instead.

Reviewer 2: Is it worth explaining the difference between checkpoints and hosted API models here? Or will the audience know that?

> This page shows how to use [W&B LLM Evaluation Jobs](/models/launch) to run a series of evaluation benchmarks on a model checkpoint using infrastructure managed by CoreWeave. To evaluate a hosted API model instead, see [Evaluate an API-hosted model](/models/launch/evaluate-hosted-model) instead.

Author: ```suggestion
This page shows how to use [W&B LLM Evaluation Jobs](/models/launch) to run a series of evaluation benchmarks on a model checkpoint in W&B, using infrastructure managed by CoreWeave. To evaluate a hosted API model served at a publicly-accessible URL, see [Evaluate an API-hosted model](/models/launch/evaluate-hosted-model) instead.
```
WDYT?

1. Create a new [W&B project](/models/track/project-page) for the evaluation results. From the left navigation, click **Create new project**.
1. Package the model in VLLM-compatible format and save it as an artifact in W&B. An attempt to benchmark any other type of artifact will fail. For one approach, see [Example: Prepare a model](#example-prepare-your-model) at the end of this page.
1. Review the documentation for a given benchmark to understand how it works and learn about specific requirements. For convenience, the [Available evaluation benchmarks](/models/launch/evaluations) reference includes relevant links.

## Evaluate your model
Follow these steps to set up and launch an evaluation job:

1. Log in to W&B, then click **Launch** in the left navigation. The **LLM Evaluation Jobs** page displays.
1. Click **Evaluate model checkpoint** to set up the evaluation job.

> 1. Select a destination project where the evaluation results will be sent.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Select a destination project to save the evaluation results to.
```

1. Click **Launch** to launch the evaluation job.
1. Click the circular arrow icon at the top of the page to open the recent run modal. Evaluation jobs appear with other runs in the project. Click the name of a finished run to open it in single-run view, or click the **Leaderboard** link to open the leaderboard directly. For details, see [View the results](#view-the-results).

<Tip>
After you evaluate your first model, many fields are pre-filled with the most recent values when you configure your next evaluation job.
</Tip>

This example evaluation job runs two benchmarks against an artifact:

<Frame>
![Example model checkpoint evaluation job](/images/models/llm-evaluation-jobs/model-checkpoint-job-example.png)
</Frame>

This example leaderboard visualizes the performance of several models together:

<Frame>
![Example leaderboard visualizing the performance of several models against several benchmark tasks](/images/models/llm-evaluation-jobs/model-checkpoint-leaderboard-example.png)
</Frame>

<ReviewEvaluationResults />

<RerunEvaluation />

<ExportEvaluation />

> ## Example: Prepare a model

Reviewer 3: I would link this where we talk about VLLM compatible models

To prepare your model, you load it in W&B, package the model weights in VLLM-compatible format, and save the result. This example shows one way to do this:

> ```python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python lines
```
displays line numbers
